When anybody is just a table, hello, it was an impasse that was created by a series of events
and a meet-to-me place.
Now, under those circumstances, it seems to me that the only solution that is open to
us, and I hope will be satisfactory to all senators, is with us.
That has to any and all senators, which includes Senator McCarty.
If they waste their telephone calls in the record, they may be offered and nobody is going to object.
And that when those telephone calls are in, meaning by that the telephone calls between the senator gone and the senators, but are your senators.
They then get asked when your back telephone calls, because once in our lives Senator McCarty and I are in agreement,
that the effect that you probably can't do anymore no matter how much you study the law and how much you talk about it.
That's in the limit of what can go in in this hearing.
However, I've been fair to you Senator, if not, I beg of you to take me out.
I think that's a completely fair statement and I just have this to the police.
The president's directive apparently prevents all calls from going in.
I take the position, the most colloquial in, I will consent to none going in.
Therefore, I agree with Mr. Welles, it will be a great waste of time to bring Mr. Lucas down, other witnesses.
I would modify my position however somewhat, in the extent that if the other countries all want their personal calls in,
I would be glad to have my personal call in. I think Mr. Welles was very fairly and I do think this may take ten seconds.
I think in view of the fact that there's no indication of this time that the president will change his directive, I wish he would.
The other fact that there's absolutely no indication that I will change my position, it will be just a last waste of time to bring down witnesses to testify about the number of calls the time the date of life.
I agree fully with Mr. Welles and that, and I think that's the first thing I'm doing here, Mr. Welles and I have fully agreed.
I was actually not there, but the chairman of the firm was, and in the comments I was the way to get through it.
I want to disagree with both counsels of the Army and some of them of the party, if I correctly interpret what they're saying,
I also, whether some calls can go in or not, whether a directive, president, a directive, we can't do that.
That may be true, I'm not much than that at the moment, but I do not agree with them. If they're trying to keep out of this record, those calls, who they were between and whether they were monitored or not.
I want Mr. Lootless on this plan, and other one, to give them a little bit of attention.
Yes, first for the purposes of identifying and swearing to those calls that do go in, all the senators or others who may agree that their monitors are both going to record.
Because I've walked in and this record legally first, and second, I have proposed.
If Mr. Lootless takes that stand, I have proposed to ask him to identify, well, other calls.
They come and trace, well, it is to this controversy, and name those that he concludes or the counsel concludes.
Within the presidential directive, in other words, if no, the apartment plus the moment in this controversy gives them nine to this committee,
I certainly won't be identified in the responsible that the place where it belongs.
Maybe the president's right, I'm not saying it's not.
Well, Mr. Chairman, we have a duty to try to get all the truth that we possibly can.
And if the president wants to take a responsibility, I'm not necessarily implying that I disagree with him, maybe some of them should be with her.
But I want us to know that we have gone as far as we could in gotten executed just a morning.
That's pertinent to this for you in controversy.
I've got the youth, and I may do so without losing the floor as we say.
Mr. Chairman, I say something to Mr. Wilson, I only agree that there were two established rights.
There was nothing remotely approaching any deal. We are going to be friendly enemies here.
I know during the entire...
We only agree that number one, there is a presidential directive, which has a certain cause, which I consider pertinent, came out going.
We both recognize that.
I disagree with the directive. I don't think Mr. Wilson, you may or may not.
Number two, the other established fact, Shunford, is that unless all calls go in, I will not consent to any calls in number three.
It's the ruling of the chair that unless there's a consent, no calls can go in.
I just make one exception however, I said that if these centers would let their calls go in, I'd be glad to have my personal calls go in, but I will not let all of the calls of my standards go in.
Of my staff, subsequent to the time the charges are made self-serving calls, the ruling unless everything goes in.
We're just recognizing a fact now, if anything, something can be gained from having Mr. Lucas identify the calls, I've got no objection.
Mr. Wilson, I have no, and we're dealing an armed link from this, and we're right to do this.
Or not dealing at all, I mean, there's no deal, they didn't have that amount of use.
We're talking about that, which is a very, very complicated question.
We're talking an armed link, there's no deal with any kind, we just most felt as long as the presidential directive stands.
As long as I take the position which I do, I intend to continue taking, at the waist of time, Mr. Lucas, down.
Well, I say this, I'm not interested in the disagreements between you and the world for the dresses that just show to you primarily, so whether you let your flow come in or not, maybe, that isn't the question.
We have a duty here as a committee, and I think it is our duty, and I hope the Senate there will share the effort with me to bring in evidence, testimony, it's possible to bring.
And if this committee sits around here and all just kind of using back to retreats from this position, certainly you're not going to be able to get any effective result from luncheon.
You want a nurse, bring it right up here to the bar, let us look at it and then make them stop and say I can't put it in.
Let's get them in here and identify them so the country will know in this recordable show what telephone calls will monitor, but we're kept out by the executive director.
I don't know how far we can go, but we can certainly identify and he can say a new, but on a certain day, so and so tall, on the telephone and I monitor that call, there's about this matter.
Or it had something in its relative to this kind of version.
And if we cannot go beyond that, we, we, we, we are fine, and of course, but the record should show what is being kept from this committee and who's responsible for it.
Mr. Chan.
Mr. Jenkins.
My pleasure.
I'm going to stand it.
The monitor is tired by my medicine.
The Matallion desires Mr. Lucas here for two purposes and the motion has been tight for the crime Mr. Lucas to be here at the earliest possible moment.
One is to legally approve the monitoring telephone calls between the members of this committee and secretary Stevens.
Such a motion has been passed.
I think Senator Matallion was entirely correct in that that is the proper and legal way to prove those telephone calls.
Secondly, not to the purpose of proving the context of the other monitor telephone calls, such as those that come within the ban of the presidential directive, but to the purpose of proving to say we're monitored, which would be proof that such calls were made.
Mr. Chairman, I think Senator McClellan is entirely correct in his position with respect to that matter from a legal standpoint.
And I gain now in due of Senator McClellan's position, request Mr. Wells, our Colonel Murray to help Mr. Lucas and he's to be here at two purposes at midnight.
That will be done in the intersection you have ten minutes.
The remaining five or ten minutes.
Before Senator Jackson begins his questioning, let's return to the meeting.
Mr. Cohn, I think we were in some place with Mr. Krauch.
I'll try to get back to where we left off.
Sure.
Looking over the document, Mr. Krauch submitted to the committee staff or whoever received it.
Isn't it true that what he's talking about occurred back in 1927 and 1928?
I'll always be back Senator Jackson. I don't think you.
Well, what the document is, is this? Mr. you have to understand this first, sir.
It's a historical background on the tactics of the international communism to infiltrate the Americans or Army and other armies.
Mr. Little One, the historical background, full crotch happens to be the man who probably had more to do with the plans of the communist conspiracy in this country to infiltrate the armed forces than anyone else.
When did he leave the communist party?
My memory is he left the communist party after the Hitler-style attack, maybe around 40.
Maybe around 40.
Or 40.
Two.
I'm told by Jim that it was 42.
Well, it's been 12 or 13 years since he left the communist party.
Now, let me ask you this.
What current information does Mr. Krauch have or did he have in 1953 on the tactics of the communist to infiltrate the American Army?
He would have plenty, sir.
How would he? He would have it in this way, Senator Jackson.
You mean that he's in close touch with him since 41-42?
Well, sorry, you're saying that, not me.
No, I'm asking you. I want to know how he would be able to offer the committee current information as to a thousand communists in the American Army.
Yes, sir. Be good. Say it like that.
I'd like to know.
Mr. Krauch is concerned. He had a key role in the communist party in so far as the infiltration of the American Armed Forces is a concern.
He knew what they were doing. He knew the names of the people who were doing it.
He knew all of the personalities involved.
After he left the party, he continued a close study of communist literature, the daily worker of other communist publications.
He was in contact with other people who had detailed knowledge of a communist movement.
And once, sir, you learn the codes, the codes, so to speak, of the communist publications and the communist writings and communist tactics,
which is a word you use and is a very proper one here.
You are in a very good position to know what is going on in the communist party, what their line is, what their tactics are.
In other words, Mr. Paul Krauch was the communist party in 1942 and kept abreast of communist literature.
He was able, much better sir than I could then, to provide research in from now a little more than research information.
He could interpret the communist line in so far as infiltration of armed forces was concerned.
He would be abreast of communist policies and communist tactics and communist by reading the daily worker publications along those lines.
He could tell much better than I could or someone who had not been a part of the movement just what they were up to and just how they were trying to do it at a given time.
It's something like a long business true that we have people in the FBI and CIA and elsewhere who probably keep more current than Mr. Krauch.
I don't know about CIA sir, as well.
Well, I suppose CIA is supposed to be working abroad on this problem.
FBI within the country, you would say that there are people in the FBI who know just as much and more than Mr. Krauch about this situation.
Yes sir, and if you could arrange for me to talk to them, I would be appreciative.
It would make it a lot easier. We don't have access to those people.
You mean you don't mean to say this Mr. Kohn that we're prohibited from talking to people in the FBI about the general conspiracy of the communists and what they're up to?
Yes sir. We are.
Yes sir, I believe the FBI does not have the investigative branch of the Justice Department and I believe sir unless I'm badly mistaken.
But this committee in any committee of Congress has no right to obtain and the FBI would have no authority to give any information general or specific without the direct commission of the Department of Justice.
Well, that may be, but Mr. Hoover has made a lot of talks and I think he's rendered a great service to the country explaining the communists conspiracy.
I'm not talking about classified documents or classified material, but I think it's general knowledge. He's testified before committees.
He's made talk after talk and I believe he's rendered a great service and explaining the nature of the conspiracy.
So that information is available in general terms. No sir.
Well, all right, I'll let I think I have a pretty good idea of an I'll be glad to read some of it into the record later if you have doubts about it because Mr. Hoover has made a lot of things.
Yes sir, Hoover has made talks about the nature of the communists conspiracy and what they're up to.
That doesn't involve classified information.
I think I've made clear probably by repeating it too many times just what my position is about Mr. Hoover. There's nobody in this world. I respect more highly than I do in.
He is the man above all others who has fear headed to fight against communist infiltration in this country.
So just to finish that in one sentence if I may the fact still remains very unfortunately that the FBI is not committed to furnish to this or any other congressional committee without specific permission of the Justice Department.
Any information general or specific I wish that they were.
Well, yes, but these departments have just as always complies with any reasonable requirement.
And how does it make these speeches?
They don't comply sir.
That is right.
I'll give my time in this.
Very good.
Senator, that's my cracker.
You yielded a kind of Mr. Wolf.
No, I don't.
No, I just want to.
I just want to.
Mr. Cooling, we've had considerable conversation here about telephone calls and as you know Mr. Wolf.
As you know, Mr. Welleson, I.
I agree that as long as the presidential directive still it.
Which keeps out of the record certain all important phone calls.
And I have taken the position that I would order my staff if I had authority not to allow any other telephone conversations and accept my own personal conversations.
When I ask you this.
And it's correct that you and I have discussed this matter and have agreed that it would be a good service to the country that even though the.
The key is dropping is illegal.
Nevertheless, having been done.
The president should make it available.
And that would solve this question.
Yes, I think at the presidential directive would change it.
I just want to.
We started this other day, but you're going.
With this question of one man committees you discussed yesterday.
The legal background for that you pointed out that in the crystal case, the case of a communist who's been convicted.
His convictions have been reversed and set aside not because he was not guilty, but because it was impossible to prove that there was a majority of the.
The president at all the times that he committed the offense.
I think it was pointed out yesterday that the center may leave for phone calls.
He's officer for a drink of water.
What have you.
And that's the reason.
Service passed the rule making one man a quorum of a committee.
One man as one center that is.
Now, we kind of had a number of one man hearings.
And I think before I ask you to describe those, we should make it clear that when either center of potter, center of months, center of durkson,
some dorshack is not been on the committee at all.
So that's the only reason why he's excluded.
Otherwise he'd be conducting these also.
When they said a moon on a committee that we can't very well blame them because it's a so-called one man committee that if any other center wants to come, he's got an absolute right to come.
He's invited to come.
Is that right?
Now, I wonder if you would describe the so-called one man committees conducted by this investigating committee and some of the other centers want the information we'll just eliminate mine for the time being.
So, I know that in addition to their regular work, center of months, center of durkson, center of potter, each undertook the major role in at least one important special investigation of the subcommittee in the case of the government printing office.
And in case of some army hearing, center of durkson are remembering the summit came back to town and developed the case in executive session and public session.
Yes, I'm starting a month later to interrupt.
If these centers have not interrupted their vacation that come back to town conduct these hearings, they matter that were exposed undoubtedly either would not have been exposed or the exposure would have been once deleted.
There's no doubt about it, sir.
In the case of Edward Rothschild, who had access to classified and secret information in the government printing office, there's no doubt in my mind that he would still be there at this minute, but we're not for that work done during the summer by this committee.
And while my three Republican colleagues conducted hearings while many of us were on vacation, while there were alone, there's no press in anyone's mind that any of the other six senators has been wanted to come back.
And I think we should make it clear here we're not criticizing the other senators.
The reason I didn't attend the so-called one-learn committee of Senator Potter, I think he did a maximum.
Senator Martin, Senator Dirkson was because I had absolute confidence in what they were doing, but the question any one of the other six of us could have cut short our vacations and come back also, could we know him?
I've mentioned to one Senator Dirkson participated in.
Senator Martin came back from South Dakota and presided at hearing, showing how the United States money plates have been given to Russia, to the Soviet Union, with the collaboration and instigation of communists who had infiltrated the United States government.
I know that Senator Potter.
I'm going to interrupt you this.
I have a little bit of collaboration with one of the top communist party, Harry Dexter White.
Harry Dexter White was involved, I believe Silvermaster was involved, a number of top communist spies headed by Harry Dexter White were involved in this scheme to give our actually physically transferred by airplane, the United States money plates for German occupation currency to roll.
So, this local one man, he was here in the center of the month, exposed that we gave away our money plates, something never done before on the instigation of the collaboration.
The other man appeared to be a top communist spy and that we lost roughly how much money because of that.
Does anybody exactly take a soloist staggering we high thought?
I'm sorry, I think it went into them. I think it was 250 million, something wrong with those lines.
I might be wrong on that. I know that there was a known fact that the money plates had been given to the Russians.
It had never been established. Just what had persuaded the Treasury Department and the State Department to agree to this and send it a month in the course of all searing, developed the fact that decisions had been made and confidence is participated in, making leading to the decision by Harry Dexter White and other communist spies.
And one center month, center of protest, center of virkson came back to hold these hearings, that fits my status one man's committees.
They of course had no way of knowing how many centers might be present because the staff had notified all the centers, right?
That's right sir, I know, I mean, other centers that come in from time to time, I know that in any case.
If you had a rule, type of rule, the daily workers advocating day after day that you must require that there be certain number of Democrats, certain number of Republicans present, keeping in mind that these are center of months, their debt, their father and myself in order, anyone to be present, if that rule were in effect, then when we will suspect center of months and the investigation will be came back from Minnesota,
I mean, that's also got to have a good party.
And from that, neither I and many other centers were present because I mean that with all the witnesses there, he would have had the camp's body searing and couldn't have held the hearing until he could have induced other centers to be present.
That's right sir, the final one, an entity, a question was the investigation conducted by Senator Potter, I'm Korean atrocities, a very important successful investigation at which Senator Potter
presided for a considerable period of time.
There's a great Senator, I mean, I'm just going to read while Senator Potter did, it's fun to great deal time, first in the preliminary work, the randomly public hearings on the Korean atrocities,
wrote a report on that showing the extremely powerful situation in Korea, the bad people of our men over there, last, that work is unfinished, but there's now ready for hearings.
The balance of Senator Potter's work, namely the investigation of American uniform men, some of them even from World War I, held in communist prisons and that work is being held out by the committee hearings.
Yes sir, I believe that's one of the pending matters.
Just one final question was drawn.
If those who oppose congressional hearings could induce the son of the committee to put through a rule, providing that a certain number of centers has to be present,
making in mind the chairman of the acting chairman of no way of forcing centers to be present, if such a rule could be put through, would that not be a great victory?
May tremendous victory, for a member who's not only the communist conspiracy but anyone guilty of rap, corruption dishonesty was being investigated.
Yes sir, we give them another avenue to avoid the consequences of false testimony or contempt before the committee.
I said one last question with this one more.
There's a correct for this rule providing for a one-man form has evolved as a result of experience over years and years in the part of some committees.
Yes sir, it's not unique to this committee. Other committees I believe have the same rule.
And is the correct also from the two of whom the only time this one-man form rule came under attack as far as you know, was not when we were exposing corrupts, corruption grab, but it was only when we started to expose communists and treasurers in government and that's when all of the certain elements,
started their all out of time upon this rule hoping to in that way.
Very good, immobilized to come in.
Yes sir, the answer to that is I think it's very noticeable that anybody who follows these things, but there's always great silence when there is a possibility of rights of people in business or labor or anything like that thing investigated for the committee.
But the minutes communists are being investigated then you immediately get objections to the way the committee functions and operates.
Yes sir.
Sir well, we have ten minutes. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire if anything is known about when the senator gets to move join us.
Not before lunch and we will be sure to talk about the conclusion of this ten minutes.
I think it will be here at the two of whom.
Mr. Chairman, because of the moment when the senator signing to get made this morning, you will be with us.
Mr. Chairman, may I be able to come in and I will be here to talk to you.
Now Mr. Cohn, when I was last questioning you, I was asking you about the addition of lawyers to your staff beside you sir.
You have a assistant counsel, is that right?
Yes sir, I believe that there are probably two or three who have the title assistant counsel.
Well, there are two or three lawyers that have been beside you.
One more.
Let me look at the list sir.
Yes sir.
One, one, one.
So I would say that there are three or four of the lawyers.
Can you be depended about it? I think you could.
I'm transferred to these.
I would give you a figure of five.
Now do they work under your direction sir?
They work under your direction, my assume.
Well they work under the direction of Senator McCarthy.
Yes, but I mean, when it really comes to administering the offices of those lawyers,
I take it, you're there, top boss with a further top boss on you, the senator.
No sir, it doesn't call that way Mr. Laws there.
It's not a clear distinction between lawyers and investigators.
Most of the boys, even though they all lawyers, will do investigative work and will do investigative work rather than legal work.
Most of the work I would say sir, for what is on investigative work, there's not too much legal work to be done.
Then in addition to the lawyers, five and number, how many investigators sir?
Well, with the explanation I give you.
I understand that. I take double in and does the lawyers, my lawyers probably do a lot more investigating than I understand.
I understand.
I go perfectly. How many others?
One, two, three.
I'd say three, three who are investigators but not lawyers.
And that, of course, does not include the g-dab and shine as of now.
No, it does not.
When he was with you did that make four such or not?
Well, back at that time, sir, yes, he certainly would have been an additional one in there, but a lot of staff changes back and forth.
What's your staff?
A staff of nine, accounting lawyers and investigators when he was with you or not.
I don't know that Mr. Wells, I have to get that for you.
One thing I do want to know is whether or not when he left, he replaced him.
No, sir, we did not.
You did not?
Now, when you were on the stand come time ago.
You were asked by someone how g-dab that shine happened to join the committee.
And as I remember you said it was a somewhat long story, but that you were one of them in who recommended him.
That's right, sir.
But it can't be too long a story.
Can it be a five-for-a-job?
I'm afraid it is a long story, sir, but I'll be clear to tell it if you want to.
Well, I have some interest. Did he apply for a job?
Sir, it wasn't quite that way.
Well, he didn't make a left-and-application?
No, he did not make eye.
He might have pulled out some form, but he did not get the job as a result of a written application for the job that he made.
Well, then did he make an oral application?
I wouldn't even say he made an oral application, so there were certain discussions between him and me and other people, and it resulted.
It didn't involve so much as coming with this committee, but it involved was his going with an investigation of the information program.
I went and developed a this committee was going to conduct that investigation.
He came over with this committee.
All right, and how soon after you joined the committee, did he join it?
It's like he was service-failing soon.
I would say two or three weeks, and that information program investigation was our first major investigation.
And had you determined that you, the committee, needed the services of a consultant?
It wasn't that easy, sir.
I would say I'm sure you were ahead, and you, sir.
No, I don't think I just started that and tried to think whether we needed the services of a consultant.
Well, that's what you took on to do, not?
So it was more a question of this investigation.
Well, can't you tell me that? You took on a consultant.
Well, the title he was given was consultant. That's right, and that is of course you didn't give him a title that didn't fit him.
I might wait for the fact, sir.
Our title probably won't fit us exactly.
Well, your title is Chief Counsel, certainly, that you doesn't.
Well, I'm afraid questions can raise about that of time.
Well, you're a lawyer, and you're the principal lawyer there.
You don't have to be so modest. Obviously, your chief counsel, aren't you?
It's not a question of modesty, sir, but if you want to add up questions which I've asked the hearings,
and I'll ask you might find it to be in a minority rather than a majority.
Well, you certainly, what I want to get at is this, that you decide to hire a shine and give him a title,
or you're actually looking for a consultant.
No, well, we were looking for, sir, well, somebody who knew something about an investigation which we were going to undertake.
Well, then you wanted an investigator.
No, sir, we wanted somebody who could work on the investigation of the information program.
Well, isn't that an investigator, sir? You just used the word. You wanted someone to look into this.
Can they make an investigation of this program?
Yes, sir.
Well, then, I wanted an investigator.
I didn't want someone to make an investigation out of it. I said I wanted someone to work on the investigation.
On the investigation?
Yes, sir.
Well, if you're going to work on the investigation, what would you like an investigator?
Well, sir, you'd like somebody who could do an hour's day if you'd like somebody who could do just about everything.
An investigator? Just exactly what you want.
Isn't it? Not exactly, sir. We want somebody who could do just about everything.
I just don't understand your use of words. You want to make an investigation. You want to get a higher time to help.
Now, don't you want an investigator?
I'm probably a full-on-microvent, so I'm trying to answer questions about the committee's setup and how we got into this investigation.
What Dave Schein did in connection with it, and I just can't answer that question by the just-in-no answers.
Well, it doesn't seem so difficult to be. I don't mind Mr. Cohen. If you hired an investigator and called him a consultant, I just want to know the truth about it.
Now, it sounds to me as if he needed an investigator, isn't that right?
Not exactly, sir. No.
Well, hardly else did you need it? Did you need a consultant?